The Specimen Implementations of the Exception Handling Components of the ABI for the ARM(R) Architecture consists of copyright owned by ARM Limited and copyright owned by Nokia Corporation. Each is licensed to you separately by the respective copyright owner, on the terms set out in this file.

1. LICENSE TO ARM COPYRIGHT

IMPORTANT: THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT ("LICENCE") BETWEEN YOU (AN INDIVIDUAL OR
SINGLE ENTITY WHO IS RECEIVING THIS SOURCE CODE DIRECTLY FROM ARM LIMITED)
("LICENSEE") AND ARM LIMITED ("ARM") FOR THE VERSION OF THE SOURCE CODE SUPPLIED
WITH THIS LICENCE ("SOURCE CODE"). THE SOURCE CODE IS A SPECIMEN IMPLEMENTATION OF
EXCEPTION HANDLING COMPONENTS COMPLYING WITH THE SPECIFICATION DEFINED IMMEDIATELY
BELOW. BY DOWNLOADING OR OTHERWISE USING THE SOURCE CODE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY
ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENCE. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THIS, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR
USE THE SOURCE CODE.

“Specification” means, and is limited to, version 2 of the specification for the
Applications Binary Interface for the ARM Architecture published by ARM.
Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Specification” shall not include (i) the
implementation of other published specifications referenced in this  Specification;
(ii) any enabling technologies that may be necessary to make or use any product or
portion thereof that complies with this Specification, but are not themselves
expressly set forth in this Specification (e.g. compiler front ends, code
generators, back ends, libraries or other compiler, assembler or linker
technologies; validation or debug software or hardware; applications, operating
system or driver software; RISC architecture; processor microarchitecture);
(iii) maskworks and physical layouts of integrated circuit designs; or (iv) RTL or
other high level representations of integrated circuit designs.

Use, copying or disclosure by the US Government is subject to the restrictions set
out in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights at 48 C.F.R. 52.227-19, as applicable.

The Source Code is owned by ARM or its licensors and is protected by copyright laws
and international copyright treaties as well as other intellectual property laws and
treaties. The Source Code is licensed not sold.

1.  Subject to the provisions of Clauses 2 and 3, ARM hereby grants to LICENSEE,
under any intellectual property that is (i) owned or freely licensable by ARM
without payment to unaffiliated third parties and (ii) either embodied in the Source
Code, or Necessary to copy or implement an applications binary interface compliant
with the Specification, a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, fully paid,
worldwide limited licence to use, copy, modify and sublicense this Source Code (in
source or object code form) solely for the purpose of developing, having developed,
manufacturing, having manufactured, offering to sell, selling, supplying or
otherwise distributing products which comply with the Specification, provided that
LICENSEE preserves all copyright notices included in the Source Code. All other
rights are reserved to ARM or its licensors.

2. THIS SOURCE CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTIES EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY,
MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOURCE
CODE MAY INCLUDE ERRORS. ARM RESERVES THE RIGHT TO INCORPORATE MODIFICATIONS TO THE
SOURCE CODE IN LATER REVISIONS OF IT, AND TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS OR CHANGES IN THE
SPECIFICATION OR THE PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES DESCRIBED THEREIN AT ANY TIME.

3.  This Licence shall immediately terminate and shall be unavailable to LICENSEE if
LICENSEE or any party affiliated to LICENSEE asserts any patents against ARM, ARM
affiliates, third parties who have a valid licence from ARM for the Specification or
the Source Code, or any customers or distributors of any of them based upon a claim
that a LICENSEE (or LICENSEE affiliate) patent is Necessary to implement the
Specification. In this Licence; (i) "affiliate" means any entity controlling,
controlled by or under common control with a party (in fact or in law, via voting
securities, management control or otherwise) and "affiliated" shall be construed
accordingly; (ii) "assert" means to allege infringement in legal or administrative
proceedings, or proceedings before any other competent trade, arbitral or
international authority; (iii) “Necessary” means with respect to any claims of any
patent, those claims which, without the appropriate permission of the patent owner,
will be infringed when implementing the Specification because no alternative,
commercially reasonable, non-infringing way of implementing the Specification is
known; and (iv) English law and the jurisdiction of the English courts shall apply
to all aspects of this Licence, its interpretation and enforcement. The total
liability of ARM and any of its suppliers and licensors under or in relation to this
Licence shall be limited to the greater of the amount actually paid by LICENSEE for
the Specification or US$10.00. The limitations, exclusions and disclaimers in this
Licence shall apply to the maximum extent allowed by applicable law.


ARM contract reference number LEC-ELA-00080-V2.0.


2. LICENSE TO NOKIA COPYRIGHT

IMPORTANT: THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT ("LICENCE") BETWEEN YOU (AN INDIVIDUAL OR
SINGLE ENTITY WHO IS RECEIVING THIS SOURCE CODE FROM NOKIA CORPORATION)
("LICENSEE") AND NOKIA CORPORATION ("NOKIA") FOR THE VERSION OF THE SOURCE CODE SUPPLIED WITH THIS LICENCE ("SOURCE CODE"). THE SOURCE CODE IS A SPECIMEN IMPLEMENTATION OF EXCEPTION HANDLING COMPONENTS COMPLYING WITH THE SPECIFICATION DEFINED IMMEDIATELY BELOW. BY DOWNLOADING OR OTHERWISE USING THE SOURCE CODE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS LICENCE. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THIS, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR USE THE SOURCE CODE.

“Specification” means, and is limited to, version 2 of the specification for the
Applications Binary Interface for the ARM Architecture published by ARM LIMITED.
Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Specification” shall not include (i) the
implementation of other published specifications referenced in this Specification;
(ii) any enabling technologies that may be necessary to make or use any product or
portion thereof that complies with this Specification, but are not themselves
expressly set forth in this Specification (e.g. compiler front ends, code
generators, back ends, libraries or other compiler, assembler or linker
technologies; validation or debug software or hardware; applications, operating
system or driver software; RISC architecture; processor microarchitecture);
(iii) maskworks and physical layouts of integrated circuit designs; or (iv) RTL or
other high level representations of integrated circuit designs.

Use, copying or disclosure by the US Government is subject to the restrictions set
out in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights at 48 C.F.R. 52.227-19, as applicable.

The Source Code is owned by Nokia or its licensors and is protected by copyright laws
and international copyright treaties as well as other intellectual property laws and
treaties. The Source Code is licensed not sold.

1.  Subject to the provisions of Clauses 2 and 3, Nokia hereby grants to LICENSEE,
under any intellectual property that is (i) owned or freely licensable by Nokia
without payment to unaffiliated third parties and (ii) either embodied in the Source
Code, or Necessary to copy or implement an applications binary interface compliant
with the Specification, a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-transferable, fully paid,
worldwide limited licence to use, copy, modify and sublicense this Source Code (in
source or object code form) solely for the purpose of developing, having developed,
manufacturing, having manufactured, offering to sell, selling, supplying or
otherwise distributing products which comply with the Specification, provided that
LICENSEE preserves all copyright notices included in the Source Code. All other
rights are reserved to Nokia or its licensors.

2. THIS SOURCE CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITH NO WARRANTIES EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR
STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY OF SATISFACTORY QUALITY,
MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOURCE
CODE MAY INCLUDE ERRORS. ARM RESERVES THE RIGHT TO INCORPORATE MODIFICATIONS TO THE
SOURCE CODE IN LATER REVISIONS OF IT, AND TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS OR CHANGES IN THE
SPECIFICATION OR THE PRODUCTS OR TECHNOLOGIES DESCRIBED THEREIN AT ANY TIME.

3.  English law and the jurisdiction of the English courts shall apply
to all aspects of this Licence, its interpretation and enforcement. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL NOKIA, ITS EMPLOYEES OR LICENSORS OR AFFILIATES BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST PROFITS, REVENUE, SALES, DATA, OR COSTS OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, PROPERTY DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY, INTERRUPTION OF BUSINESS, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, ECONOMIC, COVER, PUNITIVE, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND WHETHER ARISING UNDER CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, OR OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOKIA OR ITS LICENSORS OR AFFILIATES ARE ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. BECAUSE SOME COUNTRIES/STATES/JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY, BUT MAY ALLOW LIABILITY TO BE LIMITED, IN SUCH CASES, NOKIA, ITS EMPLOYEES OR LICENSORS OR AFFILIATES' LIABILITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO U.S. $50. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prejudice the statutory rights of any party dealing as a consumer. Nothing contained in this Agreement limits Nokia's liability to You in the event of death or personal injury resulting from Nokia's negligence. Nokia is acting on behalf of its employees and licensors or affiliates for the purpose of disclaiming, excluding, and/or restricting obligations, warranties, and liability as provided in this clause 9, but in no other respects and for no other purpose.

</End>
